`getLedgerEntries`: Outline building and parsing all sorts of `LedgerKey`s (#1060)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/rpc/api-reference/methods/getLedgerEntries.mdx

description: Returns ledger entries
---

import { CodeExample } from "@site/src/components/CodeExample";
import { RpcMethod } from "@site/src/components/RpcMethod";
import rpcSpec from "@site/static/stellar-rpc.openrpc.json";

<RpcMethod
  method={rpcSpec.methods.filter((meth) => meth.name === "getLedgerEntries")[0]}
/>

The Stellar ledger is, on some level, essentially a key-value store. The keys are `LedgerKey`s and the values are `LedgerEntryData`s in the XDR. An interesting product of the store's internal design is that the key is a _subset_ of the entry: we'll see more of this later.

The `getLedgerEntries` method returns the "values" (or "entries") for a given set of "keys". `LedgerKey`s come in a lot of forms, and we'll go over the valuable ones on this page alongside tutorials on how to build and use them.

## Types of `LedgerKey`s

> The source of truth should always be the XDR defined in the protocol. `LedgerKey`s are a union type defined in [Stellar-ledger-entries.x](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-xdr/blob/529d5176f24c73eeccfa5eba481d4e89c19b1181/Stellar-ledger-entries.x#L600). There are 10 different forms a ledger key can take:

Reviewer: Can this link be to a protocol version. XDR is tagged.

> 1. **Account:** holistically defines a Stellar account, including its balance, signers, etc. (see [Accounts](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/accounts))

Reviewer: At the beginning of the list, the list is describe as "forms a ledger key can take," however the list describes the ledger entries, rather than the keys. For example:

> **Account:** holistically defines a Stellar account, including its balance, signers, etc.

Maybe:

> There are 10 different forms a ledger key can take and each refers one-to-one with the following ledger entries:

> 1. **Account:** holistically defines a Stellar account, including its balance, signers, etc. (see [Accounts](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/accounts))
> 2. **Trustline:** defines a balance line to a non-native asset issued on the network (see [`changeTrustOp`](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/transactions/list-of-operations#change-trust))

Reviewer: The 'defines' is pretty repetitive in this section, suggest dropping it:
```suggestion
1. **Account:** a Stellar account, including its balance, signers, etc. (see [Accounts](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/stellar-data-structures/accounts))
2. **Trustline:** a balance holding an issued asset (see [`changeTrustOp`](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/fundamentals/transactions/list-of-operations#change-trust))
```

Author: This is a writing style choice, no? I actually made it repetitive on purpose to grammatically have parallel structure.

    asset: new Asset(
      "USDC",
      "GA5ZSEJYB37JRC5AVCIA5MOP4RHTM335X2KGX3IHOJAPP5RE34K4KZVN",
    ).toTrustLineXDRObject(),
  }),
);
```

Much like an [account](#accounts), the resulting entry has a balance, but it also has a limit and flags to control how much of that asset can be held. The asset, however, can be either an issued asset or a liquidity pool:

```typescript
let asset: string;
let rawAsset = trustlineEntryData.asset();

switch (rawAsset.switch().value) {
  case AssetType.assetTypeCreditAlphanum4().value:
    asset = Asset.fromOperation(
      xdr.Asset.assetTypeCreditAlphanum4(rawAsset.alphaNum4()),
    ).toString();
    break;

  case AssetType.assetTypeCreditAlphanum12().value:
    asset = Asset.fromOperation(
      xdr.Asset.assetTypeCreditAlphanum12(rawAsset.alphaNum12()),
    ).toString();
    break;

  case AssetType.assetTypePoolShare().value:
    asset = rawAsset.liquidityPoolId().toXDR("hex");
    break;
}

console.log(
  `Account ${publicKey} has ${trustlineEntryData
    .balance()
    .toString()} stroops of ${asset} with a limit of ${trustlineEntryData
    .balance()
    .toString()}`,
);
```

### Contract Data

> Suppose we've deployed the [`increment` example contract] and want to find out what value is stored in the `COUNTER` ledger key. To build the key,

Author: The code example is the rest of the sentence. Replaced `,` with `:` for clarity!

      contract: new Address(contractId).toScAddress(),
      key: xdr.ScVal.scvSymbol(symbolText),
      // or, possibly, .temporary(), depending on your contract
      durability: xdr.ContractDataDurability.persistent(),
    }),
  );
};

const ledgerKey = getLedgerKeySymbol(
  "CCPYZFKEAXHHS5VVW5J45TOU7S2EODJ7TZNJIA5LKDVL3PESCES6FNCI",
  "COUNTER",
);
```

</CodeExample>

### Contract WASM Code

To understand this, we need a handle on how smart contract deployment works:

- When you deploy a contract, first the code is "installed" (i.e. uploaded onto the blockchain), creating a `LedgerEntry` with the WASM byte-code that can be uniquely identified by its hash (that is, the hash of the uploaded code itself).
- Then, when a contract _instance_ is "deployed," we create a `LedgerEntry` with a reference to that code's hash. This means many contracts can point to the same WASM code.

Thus, fetching the contract code is a two-step process:

1. First, we look up the contract itself, to see which code hash it is referencing.
2. Then, we can look up the raw WASM byte-code using that hash.

#### 1. Find the ledger key for the contract instance

<CodeExample>

> ```python

Reviewer: Some examples are Python and JavaScript, some are Python and TypeScript, and some are unlabelled and I assume just JavaScript. Can we make them consistent, maybe all JS instead of TS, and all also have Python?

Author: None of them are unlabeled; I'm not sure what you mean? It's all TS and/or Python. Also I don't use the Python SDK enough to make examples for them - the ones included here are copy-pasta from elsewhere iirc.

Reviewer: By unlabelled, I mean that some code blocks have no context as to which SDK they're using:

<img width="658" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-08 at 10 34 38 pm" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/66b088cf-51cd-478a-9e1d-084bcd739b6d" />

And some code examples start with Python, then continue with JS/TS, where the first code sample is labeled as Python because of the tab, then the second one isn't:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/603bc480-be24-400b-af9d-b425bd683fed

Author: Ahh I see what you mean by "label", I thought you meant there was no highlight. Yeah, I can see how that can be misleading. I'll add `<CodeExample>`s everywhere in a new PR on Monday :+1:

Reviewer: Moved to an issue since this PR is merged:
- https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/issues/1385

      "AAAABgAAAAGfjJVEBc55drW3U87N1Py0Rw0/nlqUA6tQ6r28khEl4gAAABQAAAAB"
      "AAAABgAAAAAAAAABn4yVRAXOeXa1t1POzdT8tEcNP55alAOrUOq9vJIRJeIAAAAUAAAAAQAAABMAAAAA5DNtbckOGVRsNVb8L7X/lIhAOy2o5G6GkLKXvc7W8foAAAAA"
    ]
  }
}
```

</CodeExample>

Then you can inspect them accordingly. Each of the above entries follows the XDR for that `LedgerEntryData` structure precisely. For example, the `AccountEntry` is in [`Stellar-ledger-entries.x#L191`](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-xdr/blob/529d5176f24c73eeccfa5eba481d4e89c19b1181/Stellar-ledger-entries.x#L191) and you can use `.seqNum()` to access its current sequence number, as we've shown. In JavaScript, you can see the appropriate methods in the [type definition](https://github.com/stellar/js-stellar-base/blob/6930a70d7fbde675514b5933baff605d97453ba7/types/curr.d.ts#L3034).

## Viewing and understanding XDR

If you don't want to parse the XDR out programmatically, you can also leverage both the [Stellar CLI](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/tools/developer-tools/cli/stellar-cli) and the [Stellar Lab](https://lab.stellar.org/xdr/view) to get a human-readable view of ledger keys and entries. For example,

```bash

> echo 'AAAAAAAAAAAL76GC5jcgEGfLG9+nptaB9m+R44oweeN3EcqhstdzhQ==' | stellar xdr decode --type LedgerKey | jq

Reviewer: `jq` makes some assumptions about a developers environment and assumes some familiarity with the tool. Suggest tweaking as below to be more inclusive, and to narrowly focus on the Stellar tools:
```suggestion
echo 'AAAAAAAAAAAL76GC5jcgEGfLG9+nptaB9m+R44oweeN3EcqhstdzhQ==' | stellar xdr decode --type LedgerKey --output json-formatted
```
This command with the use of echo and pipe probably won't work on Windows. Could you add a tabbed box for Windows with the equivalent Windows command? The docs don't do this consistently yet but in new docs we're putting some effort into working on windows. (@fnando has suggested using UTM to try out windows commands.)

Author: imo `jq` is as ubiquitous as `curl` these days, but native to the CLI is def better :+1: 

I'm 100% not going to figure out how to spin up a VM+Windows on Linux just to get this PR merged. I'm also 99% sure this will work: `echo` and `|` work the same way in Batch ([example](https://stackoverflow.com/a/33292435)). If it doesn't, I'm sure someone will raise an issue or figure out the equivalent.

)
```

> ```js

Reviewer 2: not sure if it matters but, should this be a typescript code block like the other examples above?

import { xdr, Address } from "@stellar/stellar-sdk";

const getLedgerKeySymbol = (contractId, symbolText) => {
  return xdr.LedgerKey.contractData(
    new xdr.LedgerKeyContractData({
      contract: new Address(contractId).toScAddress(),
      key: xdr.ScVal.scvSymbol(symbolText),

>       // or, possibly, .temporary(), depending on your contract

Reviewer 2: the [increment contract example](https://developers-pr1060.previews.kube001.services.stellar-ops.com/docs/build/smart-contracts/getting-started/storing-data) stores this variable in instance storage. So this comment might be confusing. Maybe you can rephrase the comment to be 
```suggestion
      // the increment contract stores its state in persistent storage but other contracts may use
      // temporary storage which have a durability of xdr.ContractDataDurability. temporary()
```

      durability: xdr.ContractDataDurability.persistent(),
    }),
  );
};

const ledgerKey = getLedgerKeySymbol(
  "CCPYZFKEAXHHS5VVW5J45TOU7S2EODJ7TZNJIA5LKDVL3PESCES6FNCI",
  "COUNTER",
);
```

</CodeExample>

### Contract Wasm Code

To understand this, we need a handle on how smart contract deployment works:

> - When you deploy a contract, first the code is "installed" (i.e. uploaded onto the blockchain), creating a `LedgerEntry` with the Wasm byte-code that can be uniquely identified by its hash (that is, the hash of the uploaded code itself).

Reviewer 2: I think you should try to use the same terminology / description as https://developers-pr1060.previews.kube001.services.stellar-ops.com/docs/build/smart-contracts/getting-started/deploy-increment-contract . That page states that deployment is a two step process with first step being uploading / installing the code and the second step being instantiation.

In this snippet, you refer to the second step as deployment which might be confusing since the other page defines it as creation / instantiation.

Author: Good call, updated :+1:

    }),
  );
}
```

</CodeExample>

Now, finally we have a `LedgerKey` that correspond to the Wasm byte-code that has been deployed under the `contractId` we started out with so very long ago. This `LedgerKey` can be used in a final request to `getLedgerEntries`. In that response we will get a `LedgerEntryData` corresponding to a `ContractCodeEntry` which will contain the actual, deployed, real-life contract byte-code:

```typescript
const theHashData: xdr.ContractDataEntry = await getLedgerEntries(
  getLedgerKeyContractCode("C..."),
).entries[0].contractData();

const theCode: Buffer = await getLedgerEntries(getLedgerKeyWasmId(theHashData))
  .entries[0].contractCode()
  .code();
```

## Actually fetching the ledger entry data

Once we've learned to _build_ and _parse_ these (which we've done above at length), the process for actually fetching them is always identical. If you know the type of key you fetched, you apply the accessor method accordingly once you've received them from the `getLedgerEntries` method:

```typescript
const s = new Server("https://soroban-testnet.stellar.org");

// assume key1 is an account, key2 is a trustline, and key3 is contract data

> const keys = await s.getLedgerEntries(key1, key2, key3);

Reviewer 2: `keys` does not seem like an appropriate variable name because it actually contains the ledger entries. Maybe `response` would be a better name.

Author: Lol oopsie, good callout

> const account = keys.entries[0].account();

Reviewer 2: might be overkill but it could be useful to highlight the case where a ledger entry doesn't exist. Also, I'm not sure if it's guaranteed that the order of `entries` will match the order of the ledger entry keys you passed into `s.getLedgerEntries()`

Author: For missing ones, I think this section could be expanded with the restoration case once we've got that in P23. Then you could write very similar stuff for missing vs. archived, but right now it seems like overkill since you'd juts get 404-like exception like any other endpoint.
